Implement planned topic: 0030-langgraph-plugin (#212)
temporalio/skill-temporal-developer: references/python/integrations/langgraph.md

# Temporal LangGraph Plugin (Python)

## Overview

The `LangGraphPlugin` runs [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) nodes and tasks as Temporal Activities, giving LangGraph-orchestrated AI workflows durable execution, automatic retries, and timeouts.

Both LangGraph APIs are supported:

- **Graph API** (`StateGraph`).
- **Functional API** (`@entrypoint` / `@task`).

> The plugin ships in the Temporal Python SDK at `temporalio.contrib.langgraph` and is built on the Temporal Python SDK [Plugin system](/develop/plugins-guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin ships in the Temporal Python SDK at `temporalio.contrib.langgraph`.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > This package is currently at the **Pre-release** ("experimental") stage.  Pre-release features may have bugs, may change, and may be deprecated at any time per the [release-stages guide](/evaluate/development-production-features/release-stages#pre-release).  It is acceptable to use this feature on behalf of a user, but you should inform them that it is in Pre-release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is in Public Preview. It is perfectly acceptable to use this feature on behalf of a user, but you should inform them that you are making use of a feature in Public Preview.
```

For general Temporal Python AI/LLM patterns (Pydantic data converter, LLM Activity design, retry classification, multi-agent orchestration), read `references/python/ai-patterns.md` first; for language-agnostic patterns, read `references/core/ai-patterns.md`.

## Installation

```bash
uv add temporalio[langgraph]
```

> This pulls in `langgraph` and the plugin code as part of the `temporalio` distribution.

Reviewer 2: This is kind of obvious, could remove?

Reviewer: Only need to say it pulls in langgraph too (that isn't obvious).

> This pulls in `langgraph` and the plugin code as part of the `temporalio` distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pulls in `langgraph` as well for you.
```

Pass the same `LangGraphPlugin` instance to both the Temporal Client and the Worker via their `plugins=` parameter, like any other Temporal Python SDK plugin:

```python
from temporalio.client import Client
from temporalio.worker import Worker

client = await Client.connect("localhost:7233", plugins=[plugin])

worker = Worker(
    client,
    task_queue="my-task-queue",
    workflows=[MyWorkflow],
    plugins=[plugin],
)
await worker.run()
```

## Execution location — required per node and per task

Every node (Graph API) and every task (Functional API) must declare `execute_in`, set to either `"activity"` or `"workflow"`:

```python
# Graph API — set via node metadata
graph.add_node("my_node", my_node, metadata={"execute_in": "activity"})
graph.add_node("tool_node", tool_node, metadata={"execute_in": "workflow"})

# Functional API — set via activity_options on the plugin
plugin = LangGraphPlugin(
    tasks=[my_task, tool_task],
    activity_options={
        "my_task": {"execute_in": "activity"},
        "tool_task": {"execute_in": "workflow"},
    },
)
```

- Use `"activity"` for I/O, LLM calls, or anything that needs Temporal retries and timeouts.

> - Use `"workflow"` for purely deterministic logic that should run on the workflow thread.

Reviewer: Note: this will be a common pattern for AI library integrations. When a tool / node / thingy is configured to execute in workflow context, that doesn't necessarily mean it is restricted to do ONLY stupidly simple deterministic things, as it can do arbitrary Temporal API calls to orchestrate non-deterministic things.

```suggestion
- Use `"workflow"` for logic that should run on the workflow thread: purely deterministic logic, or logic which orchestrates Temporal durable primitives within the workflow thread (e.g. multiple activity calls, wait conditions, etc.)
```

    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, input: str) -> typing.Any:
        g = graph("my-graph").compile(
            checkpointer=langgraph.checkpoint.memory.InMemorySaver(),
        )
        return await g.ainvoke({"input": input})
```

Use `entrypoint(name)` instead of `graph(name)` for Functional-API entrypoints.

## Runtime context

LangGraph's run-scoped context (`context_schema`) is reconstructed on the Activity side, so a node can read and write `runtime.context` even when the node runs as an Activity:

```python
from langgraph.runtime import Runtime
from typing_extensions import TypedDict
from temporalio.contrib.langgraph import graph

class Context(TypedDict):
    user_id: str

async def my_node(state: State, runtime: Runtime[Context]) -> dict:
    return {"user": runtime.context["user_id"]}

# In the Workflow:
g = graph("my-graph").compile()
await g.ainvoke({...}, context=Context(user_id="alice"))
```

The `context` object must be serializable by the configured Temporal payload converter, since it crosses the Activity boundary.  If your context uses Pydantic models, configure `pydantic_data_converter` — see `references/python/ai-patterns.md`.

## Tracing

> For LangSmith tracing of LangGraph nodes and Temporal Activities together, use the [Temporal LangSmith plugin](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-python/tree/main/temporalio/contrib/langsmith).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For LangSmith tracing of LangGraph nodes and Temporal Activities together, use the Temporal LangSmith plugin (`references/python/integrations/langsmith.md`).
```

## Hard constraints

- **`execute_in` is mandatory on every node and task.** Set it to `"activity"` or `"workflow"` per node/task — it cannot be set in `default_activity_options`.
- **Use `InMemorySaver` as your checkpointer.** Temporal handles durability; do not configure PostgreSQL, Redis, or other third-party checkpointers.
- **LangGraph `Store` is not supported across the Activity boundary.** If you pass a `Store` (e.g. `InMemoryStore` via `graph.compile(store=...)` or `@entrypoint(store=...)`), the plugin logs a warning on first use and `runtime.store` is `None` inside nodes. Use Workflow state for per-run memory, or an external database (Postgres/Redis/etc.) configured on each worker for shared memory across runs.
- **Context objects must be serializable by the configured Temporal payload converter,** since they cross the Activity boundary.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Common pitfalls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Missing `execute_in` metadata.** Add it to every node (Graph API) and every task (Functional API); there is no implicit default.

Reviewer: All of these are total duplicates of the Hard Constraints section. Please learn to NOT add duplicative things!
```suggestion
```

> - **Third-party checkpointer configured.** Use `InMemorySaver`; Temporal is the durability layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Treating `Store` as shared memory.** Stores can't cross the Activity boundary — move shared state to an external database accessible from every worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Non-serializable context.** If `runtime.context` contains types your payload converter doesn't handle, Activity dispatch fails. Configure `pydantic_data_converter` if you put Pydantic models in context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Resources

- `references/python/ai-patterns.md` — Python AI/LLM patterns (Pydantic data converter, LLM Activity design, retry/error classification).
- `references/core/ai-patterns.md` — language-agnostic AI/LLM patterns.

> - Plugin source and README: <https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-python/tree/main/temporalio/contrib/langgraph>.

Reviewer: No need to give source code as a resource. Can encourage agent to go and churn on way too many tokens.
```suggestion
```

> - Companion LangSmith plugin (tracing): <https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-python/tree/main/temporalio/contrib/langsmith>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `references/python/integrations/langsmith.md` - Companion LangSmith plugin. 
```
